# Supplementary Material


This repository refers to the supplementary material for the Master's Thesis in Sciences de la Mer : Biodiversité et Conservation des Écosystèmes Marins at Sorbonne Université by the student Millenne Ohanna Selida Mihael Silva Barreto, under the supervision of Juliette Jacquemont and Joachim Claudet. The thesis is titled "Contribution of marine protected areas to abate industrial fishing effort within and nearby their boundaries".


## Abstract

Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are among the most effective tools for limiting human impacts and supporting the recovery of impacted marine ecosystems. Yet, the race to meet global area-based conservation targets has often prioritized quantity while critical features to ensure effective conservation have been neglected. This study assesses MPAs’ contribution to industrial fishing effort abatement, using the Global Fishing Watch database, to characterize real progress towards international conservation objectives. We examine temporal and spatial changes in fishing effort by comparing effort before and after MPA implementation inside and outside MPA boundaries. We test whether IUCN management categories and levels of protection as defined by the MPA guide are significant predictors of fishing effort abatement, and whether the age or size of MPAs influences abatement magnitude. We found that fully and highly protected MPAs significantly contributed to fishing pressure abatement within their boundaries. Conversely, MPAs with lower protection levels often experience increased fishing effort post-implementation both inside and outside their boundaries. We observed a limited effect of age and size on fishing pressure abatement, although fishing pressure abatement increased with size for weak levels of protection. Our findings emphasize the importance of prioritizing fully and highly protected MPAs and suggest shifting towards outcome-focused conservation assessments. We propose supplementing widespread output-focused indicators, such as protection coverage and level of protection, with outcome-focused indicators, such as fishing pressure abatement, to provide a closer measure of the net ecological benefits originating from area-based conservation tools and of effective progress towards global conservation targets.

**Keywords:** Conservation outcomes; marine protected areas (MPAs); level of protection; fisheries management; fishing effort.
